.\" OpenBSD-style concise man page
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt BASENAME 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm basename
.Nd strip directory and suffix from filenames
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm basename
.Ar name
.Op Ar suffix
.Nm basename
.Op Fl az
.Op Fl s Ar suffix
.Ar name ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility strips any leading directory components from
.Ar name .
If
.Ar suffix
is specified and is identical to the end of
.Ar name ,
it is stripped from
.Ar name .
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl a , Fl Fl multiple
Support multiple arguments and treat each as a name.
All arguments are processed, and each resulting basename is output on a separate line.
.It Fl s Ar suffix , Fl Fl suffix Ns = Ns Ar suffix
Remove a trailing
.Ar suffix
from each name argument.
This option implies
.Fl a
(multiple mode).
.It Fl z , Fl Fl zero
End each output line with a null character instead of a newline.
This is useful for processing filenames that may contain newlines.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std basename
.Sh EXAMPLES
Strip directory components:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ basename /usr/bin/sort
sort
.Ed
.Pp
Strip directory and suffix:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ basename include/stdio.h .h
stdio
.Ed
.Pp
Process multiple files with suffix removal:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ basename -s .c hello.c world.c test.h
hello
world
test.h
.Ed
.Pp
Process multiple files:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ basename -a /usr/bin/ls /home/user/file.txt simple
ls
file.txt
simple
.Ed
.Pp
Special cases for root directories:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ basename /
/
$ basename //
/
.Ed
.Pp
Handle trailing slashes:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ basename /usr/bin/
bin
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr dirname 1
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Nm
utility is compliant with the
.St -p1003.1-2008
specification.
The
.Fl a ,
.Fl s ,
and
.Fl z
options are extensions compatible with GNU coreutils.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An "vibeutils implementation by Travis Cole"