.\" OpenBSD-style concise man page
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt CAT 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm cat
.Nd concatenate and print files
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm cat
.Op Fl AbeEnstTuv
.Op Ar file ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility reads files sequentially, writing their contents
to the standard output.
The file operands are processed in command-line order.
If
.Ar file
is a single dash
.Pq Sq -
or absent,
.Nm
reads from the standard input.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl A
Equivalent to
.Fl vET .
.It Fl b
Number the non-blank output lines, starting at 1.
.It Fl e
Equivalent to
.Fl vE .
.It Fl E
Display non-printing characters (see the
.Fl v
option), and display a dollar sign
.Pq Ql $
at the end of each line.
.It Fl n
Number the output lines, starting at 1.
.It Fl s
Squeeze multiple adjacent empty lines, causing the output to be
single spaced.
.It Fl t
Equivalent to
.Fl vT .
.It Fl T
Display non-printing characters (see the
.Fl v
option), and display tab characters as
.Ql ^I .
.It Fl u
The
.Fl u
option is ignored for
POSIX
compatibility.
.It Fl v
Display non-printing characters so they are visible.
Control characters print as
.Ql ^X
for control-X; the delete character (octal 0177) prints as
.Ql ^? .
Non-ASCII characters (with the high bit set) are printed as
.Ql M-
(for meta) followed by the character for the low 7 bits.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std cat
.Sh EXAMPLES
Print the contents of
.Pa file1
to the standard output:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ cat file1
.Ed
.Pp
Concatenate
.Pa file1
and
.Pa file2
to
.Pa file3 :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ cat file1 file2 > file3
.Ed
.Pp
Number the lines of
.Pa file1 :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ cat -n file1
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr head 1 ,
.Xr less 1 ,
.Xr more 1 ,
.Xr pr 1 ,
.Xr sh 1 ,
.Xr tail 1 ,
.Xr vis 1
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Nm
utility is compliant with the
.St -p1003.1-2008
specification.