.Dd August 24, 2025
.Dt CHMOD 1
.Os vibeutils
.Sh NAME
.Nm chmod
.Nd change file modes
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm chmod
.Op Fl fhRv
.Ar mode
.Ar file ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility modifies the file mode bits of the listed files as specified by the
.Ar mode
operand.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl f
Do not display a diagnostic message if
.Nm
could not modify the mode for
.Ar file ,
nor exit with a non-zero status.
.It Fl h
If the file is a symbolic link, change the mode of the link itself rather than
the file that the link points to.
.It Fl R
Change the modes of the file hierarchies rooted in the files instead of just
the files themselves.
.It Fl v
Verbose mode. Output a diagnostic for every file processed.
.It Fl -help
Display help and exit.
.It Fl -version
Output version information and exit.
.El
.Pp
Modes may be absolute or symbolic.
An absolute mode is an octal number constructed from the sum of one or more
of the following values:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width 6n -compact -offset indent
.It Li 4000
setuid on execution
.It Li 2000
setgid on execution
.It Li 1000
sticky bit
.It Li 0400
read by owner
.It Li 0200
write by owner
.It Li 0100
execute (or search for directories) by owner
.It Li 0040
read by group
.It Li 0020
write by group
.It Li 0010
execute/search by group
.It Li 0004
read by others
.It Li 0002
write by others
.It Li 0001
execute/search by others
.El
.Pp
The symbolic mode is described by the following grammar:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
mode         ::= clause [, clause ...]
clause       ::= [who ...] [action ...] action
action       ::= op [perm ...]
who          ::= a | u | g | o
op           ::= + | - | =
perm         ::= r | s | t | w | x | X | u | g | o
.Ed
.Pp
The
.Ar who
symbols specify who is granted or denied permissions:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width 4n -compact -offset indent
.It u
the owner (user) permissions
.It g
the group permissions
.It o
other (everyone else) permissions
.It a
all of the above (default)
.El
.Pp
The
.Ar op
symbols represent the operation performed:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width 4n -compact -offset indent
.It +
grant the specified permissions
.It -
deny the specified permissions
.It =
set the specified permissions, clearing all others
.El
.Pp
The
.Ar perm
symbols represent the permissions:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width 4n -compact -offset indent
.It r
read
.It w
write
.It x
execute/search
.It X
execute/search only if file is a directory or already has execute bit
.It s
set user or group ID on execution
.It t
sticky bit
.It u
user's current permissions
.It g
group's current permissions
.It o
other's current permissions
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std chmod
.Sh EXAMPLES
Make a file readable/writable by everyone and executable by the owner only:
.Pp
.Dl "chmod 644 file"
.Pp
Make a file executable by everyone:
.Pp
.Dl "chmod a+x file"
.Pp
Remove write permission for group and others:
.Pp
.Dl "chmod go-w file"
.Pp
Set permissions to match another file:
.Pp
.Dl "chmod g=u file"
.Pp
Recursively give the owner read, write and execute permissions:
.Pp
.Dl "chmod -R u+rwx directory"
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr chown 1 ,
.Xr find 1 ,
.Xr stat 2 ,
.Xr umask 2
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Nm
utility is compliant with the
.St -p1003.2
specification.
.Sh AUTHORS
vibeutils implementation by Travis Cole.