.Dd August 24, 2025
.Dt CHOWN 1
.Os vibeutils
.Sh NAME
.Nm chown
.Nd change file owner and group
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm chown
.Op Fl cfhRv
.Op Fl -reference Ns = Ns Ar rfile
.Ar owner Ns Op : Ns Ar group
.Ar file ...
.Nm chown
.Op Fl cfhRv
.Op Fl -reference Ns = Ns Ar rfile
.Ar :group
.Ar file ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility changes the user ID and/or the group ID of the specified files.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl c , Fl -changes
Like verbose but report only when a change is made.
.It Fl f , Fl -silent , Fl -quiet
Suppress most error messages.
.It Fl h , Fl -no-dereference
If the file is a symbolic link, change the owner of the link itself,
rather than the file that the link points to.
.It Fl R , Fl -recursive
Change the user ID and/or the group ID for the file hierarchies rooted
in the files instead of just the files themselves.
.It Fl v , Fl -verbose
Output a diagnostic for every file processed.
.It Fl -dereference
Affect the referent of each symbolic link (default), rather than the
symbolic link itself.
.It Fl -from Ns = Ns Ar current_owner : Ns Ar current_group
Change the owner and/or group of each file only if its current owner
and/or group match those specified here.
.It Fl -reference Ns = Ns Ar rfile
Use the owner and group of
.Ar rfile
instead of specifying values.
.It Fl -help
Display help and exit.
.It Fl -version
Output version information and exit.
.El
.Pp
The
.Ar owner
and
.Ar group
operands are both optional; however, at least one must be specified.
If the
.Ar group
operand is specified, it must be preceded by a colon (`:') character.
.Pp
The
.Ar owner
may be either a user name or a numeric user ID.
The
.Ar group
may be either a group name or a numeric group ID.
.Pp
The ownership of a file may only be altered by a super-user for
obvious security reasons.
Users may change the group ownership of files they own to any group
of which they are a member.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std chown
.Sh EXAMPLES
Change the owner of file.txt to user "alice":
.Pp
.Dl "chown alice file.txt"
.Pp
Change the owner to "bob" and group to "staff":
.Pp
.Dl "chown bob:staff file.txt"
.Pp
Change only the group to "wheel":
.Pp
.Dl "chown :wheel file.txt"
.Pp
Recursively change ownership of all files in a directory:
.Pp
.Dl "chown -R alice:staff directory/"
.Pp
Copy ownership from another file:
.Pp
.Dl "chown --reference=template.txt target.txt"
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr chgrp 1 ,
.Xr chmod 1 ,
.Xr find 1 ,
.Xr chown 2 ,
.Xr stat 2
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Nm
utility is compliant with the
.St -p1003.2
specification.
.Sh AUTHORS
vibeutils implementation by Travis Cole.