.\" OpenBSD-style concise man page
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt CP 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm cp
.Nd copy files and directories
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm cp
.Op Fl dfipRr
.Ar source target
.Nm cp
.Op Fl dfipRr
.Ar source ... directory
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility copies the contents of
.Ar source
to
.Ar target .
If
.Ar target
is a directory, then the
.Ar source
is copied into
.Ar target
with its original filename.
If multiple sources are provided, they are copied into the target directory.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl d
Do not follow symbolic links in the source.
When this option is specified, symbolic links are copied as symbolic links,
not the files they reference.
.It Fl f
Force copy by removing the destination if it cannot be opened for writing.
.It Fl i
Prompt for confirmation before overwriting existing files.
.It Fl p
Preserve file mode, ownership, and timestamps.
.It Fl R , Fl r
Copy directories recursively.
If this option is not specified,
.Nm
will not copy directories.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std cp
.Sh EXAMPLES
Copy
.Pa file1
to
.Pa file2 :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ cp file1 file2
.Ed
.Pp
Copy a directory recursively:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ cp -r source_dir target_dir
.Ed
.Pp
Copy a symbolic link without following it:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ cp -d symlink new_symlink
.Ed
.Pp
Copy with preserved attributes:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ cp -p file1 file2
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr chmod 1 ,
.Xr rsync 1
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Nm
utility attempts to be compatible with the
.St -p1003.1-2008
specification, with additional support for modern features
like symbolic link handling.