.Dd August 3, 2025
.Dt HEAD 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm head
.Nd display first lines of a file
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm head
.Op Fl nqv
.Op Fl c Ar num
.Op Fl n Ar num
.Op Ar file ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility displays the first count lines or bytes of each of the specified
files, or of the standard input if no files are specified.
If count is omitted it defaults to 10.
.Pp
If more than one file is specified,
.Nm
precedes the output of each file with the following, in order to distinguish
which file is being displayed:
.Pp
.Dl ==> filename <==
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl c Ar num , Fl Fl bytes Ns = Ns Ar num
Print
.Ar num
bytes of each of the specified files.
.It Fl n Ar num , Fl Fl lines Ns = Ns Ar num
Print
.Ar num
lines of each of the specified files.
.It Fl q , Fl Fl quiet , Fl Fl silent
Never print headers giving file names.
.It Fl v , Fl Fl verbose
Always print headers giving file names.
.It Fl Fl help
Display help and exit.
.It Fl Fl version
Output version information and exit.
.El
.Pp
If no options are specified,
.Nm
defaults to displaying the first 10 lines of each specified file.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh EXAMPLES
Display the first 10 lines of a file:
.Pp
.Dl $ head myfile.txt
.Pp
Display the first 5 lines of multiple files:
.Pp
.Dl $ head -n 5 file1.txt file2.txt
.Pp
Display the first 100 bytes of a file:
.Pp
.Dl $ head -c 100 data.bin
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr cat 1 ,
.Xr less 1 ,
.Xr more 1 ,
.Xr tail 1
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Nm
utility conforms to
.St -p1003.1-2008 .
.Sh AUTHORS
.An "vibeutils implementation by Travis Cole"