.\" OpenBSD-style concise man page
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt LN 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ln
.Nd create hard and symbolic links
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm ln
.Op Fl finsv
.Ar target link_name
.Nm ln
.Op Fl finsv
.Ar target
.Nm ln
.Op Fl finsv
.Ar target ... directory
.Nm ln
.Op Fl finsv
.Fl t Ar directory
.Ar target ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility creates a link named
.Ar link_name
which references
.Ar target .
By default,
.Nm
creates hard links.
.Pp
In the second form,
.Nm
creates a link to
.Ar target
in the current directory.
.Pp
In the third and fourth forms,
.Nm
creates links to each
.Ar target
in the specified
.Ar directory .
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl f
Remove existing destination files.
.It Fl i
Prompt before removing existing destination files.
.It Fl n
Do not follow symbolic links when determining if the destination is a directory.
.It Fl r
With
.Fl s ,
create symbolic links relative to the link's location.
.It Fl s
Create symbolic links instead of hard links.
Symbolic links can reference files that do not exist.
.It Fl t Ar directory
Create links in the specified directory.
.It Fl v
Print the name of each file as it is linked.
.El
.Pp
Hard links cannot span file systems and cannot reference directories.
Symbolic links can reference any file or directory
and are resolved at the time of access.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std ln
.Sh EXAMPLES
Create a hard link:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ ln file.txt hardlink.txt
.Ed
.Pp
Create a symbolic link:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ ln -s /usr/bin/vim vi
.Ed
.Pp
Create multiple links in a directory:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ ln -s file1.txt file2.txt links/
.Ed
.Pp
Create a relative symbolic link:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ ln -sr /home/user/file.txt /home/user/docs/link
$ ls -l /home/user/docs/link
lrwxrwxrwx 1 user user 11 Jul 26 08:45 link -> ../file.txt
.Ed
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Bl -diag
.It "cross-device link"
Hard links cannot span file systems.
Use symbolic links instead.
.It "file exists"
The destination file already exists.
Use
.Fl f
to overwrite.
.It "is a directory"
Hard links cannot reference directories.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr readlink 1 ,
.Xr rm 1 ,
.Xr link 2 ,
.Xr symlink 2
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Nm
utility is compliant with the
.St -p1003.1-2008
specification.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An "vibeutils implementation by Travis Cole"