.\" OpenBSD-style concise man page
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt LS 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ls
.Nd list directory contents
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm ls
.Op Fl 1AadhklRV
.Op Fl Fl help
.Op Fl Fl version
.Op Fl Fl color Ns = Ns Ar when
.Op Fl Fl icons Ns = Ns Ar when
.Op Fl Fl time-style Ns = Ns Ar style
.Op Fl Fl group-directories-first
.Op Fl Fl git
.Op Ar file ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
For each operand that names a
.Ar file
of a type other than directory,
.Nm
displays its name as well as any requested,
associated information.
For each operand that names a
.Ar file
of type directory,
.Nm
displays the names of files contained
within that directory, as well as any requested, associated
information.
.Pp
If no operands are given, the contents of the current
directory are displayed.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl 1
(The numeric digit one.)
Force output to be one entry per line.
.It Fl A
Include directory entries whose names begin with a
dot
.Pq Sq \&.
except for
.Pa \&.
and
.Pa .. .
.It Fl a
Include directory entries whose names begin with a
dot
.Pq Sq \&. .
.It Fl d
Directories are listed as plain files (not searched recursively).
.It Fl h
When used with the
.Fl l
option, use unit suffixes: Byte, Kilobyte,
Megabyte, Gigabyte, Terabyte and Petabyte in order to reduce the
number of digits to three or less using base 2 for sizes.
.It Fl k
Display file sizes in kilobytes when used with the
.Fl l
option.
.It Fl l
(The lowercase letter ell.)
List in long format.
.It Fl R
Recursively list subdirectories encountered.
.It Fl Fl color Ns = Ns Ar when
Colorize the output.
.Ar when
can be
.Dq always ,
.Dq auto ,
or
.Dq never .
.It Fl Fl group-directories-first
Group directories before files in the listing.
.It Fl Fl icons Ns = Ns Ar when
Show file type icons.
.Ar when
can be
.Dq always ,
.Dq auto ,
or
.Dq never .
.It Fl Fl time-style Ns = Ns Ar style
Time/date format.
.Ar style
can be
.Dq relative ,
.Dq iso ,
or
.Dq long-iso .
.It Fl Fl git
Show git status indicators for files.
.It Fl h , Fl Fl help
Display help message and exit.
.It Fl V , Fl Fl version
Display version information and exit.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std ls
.Sh EXAMPLES
List all files in the current directory in long format:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ ls -la
.Ed
.Pp
List files with human-readable sizes:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ ls -lh
.Ed
.Pp
List only the names of subdirectories:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ ls -d */
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr chmod 1 ,
.Xr find 1 ,
.Xr stat 1 ,
.Xr symlink 7
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Nm
utility is compliant with the
.St -p1003.1-2017
specification.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An "vibeutils implementation by Travis Cole"