.Dd July 24, 2025
.Dt MV 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mv
.Nd move (rename) files
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl finv
.Ar source target
.Nm
.Op Fl finv
.Ar source ... directory
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility moves (renames) files and directories.
In its first form, it renames
.Ar source
to
.Ar target .
In its second form, it moves each named
.Ar source
to the destination
.Ar directory .
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl f , -force
Do not prompt before overwriting existing files.
.It Fl i , -interactive
Prompt before overwriting existing files.
.It Fl n , -no-clobber
Do not overwrite existing files.
.It Fl v , -verbose
Explain what is being done.
.It Fl h , -help
Display help and exit.
.It Fl V , -version
Output version information and exit.
.El
.Pp
If
.Ar target
does not exist, it is created.
If
.Ar target
exists and is a directory, the file is moved into that directory.
.Pp
The
.Nm
utility attempts to use the
.Xr rename 2
system call for efficiency.
If the source and destination are on different file systems,
.Nm
falls back to copying the file and then removing the original.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh EXAMPLES
Rename a file:
.Pp
.Dl $ mv oldname.txt newname.txt
.Pp
Move multiple files to a directory:
.Pp
.Dl $ mv file1.txt file2.txt documents/
.Pp
Move a directory and all its contents:
.Pp
.Dl $ mv old_project/ new_project/
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr cp 1 ,
.Xr ln 1 ,
.Xr rm 1
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Nm
utility is compliant with the
.St -p1003.1-2008
specification.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Travis Cole