.Dd January 25, 2025
.Dt RM 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm rm
.Nd remove files or directories
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm rm
.Op Fl fIirRv
.Ar file ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility removes the file or directory entries specified.
.Pp
By default,
.Nm
does not remove directories.
Use the
.Fl r
or
.Fl R
option to remove directories and their contents recursively.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Remove a single file:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ rm file.txt
.Ed
.Pp
Remove multiple files with confirmation:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ rm -i *.log
rm: remove regular file 'error.log'? y
rm: remove regular file 'access.log'? n
.Ed
.Pp
Remove a directory and all its contents:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ rm -rf old_project/
.Ed
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
The
.Nm
utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rmdir 1 ,
.Xr unlink 2
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Nm
utility is compliant with the
.St -p1003.1-2008
specification.
.Pp
The flags
.Op Fl I
and
.Op Fl v
are extensions to that specification.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Travis Cole
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl f , Fl Fl force
Ignore nonexistent files and arguments, never prompt.
.It Fl i
Prompt before every removal.
.It Fl I
Prompt once before removing more than three files, or when removing
recursively.
Less intrusive than
.Fl i
while still giving protection against most mistakes.
.It Fl r , Fl R , Fl Fl recursive
Remove directories and their contents recursively.
.It Fl v , Fl Fl verbose
Explain what is being done.
.It Fl Fl help
Display help and exit.
.It Fl Fl version
Output version information and exit.
.El
.Sh SAFETY FEATURES
The
.Nm
utility includes advanced safety features:
.Bl -bullet
.It
Protection against removing critical system directories
.It
Detection of symlink cycles to prevent infinite loops
.It
Atomic operations using file descriptors to prevent race conditions
.It
Cross-filesystem boundary detection
.It
Same-file detection for hard links
.El