.\" sleep(1) manual page
.\" This is part of the vibeutils project
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt SLEEP 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm sleep
.Nd delay for a specified amount of time
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar NUMBER Ns Op SUFFIX ...
.Nm
.Op Fl h | Fl Fl help
.Nm
.Op Fl V | Fl Fl version
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility suspends execution for at least the specified amount of time.
Time can be specified as a plain number
.Pq seconds
or with a unit suffix.
.Pp
Unlike most implementations that require
.Ar NUMBER
to be an integer, this implementation accepts arbitrary floating point numbers.
Given two or more arguments, the utility pauses for the amount of time
specified by the sum of their values.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl h , Fl Fl help
Display help information and exit.
.It Fl V , Fl Fl version
Output version information and exit.
.El
.Pp
The
.Ar NUMBER
argument may be an integer or floating point number followed by an optional
.Ar SUFFIX :
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Sy s
Seconds
.Pq default
.It Sy m
Minutes
.It Sy h
Hours
.It Sy d
Days
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh EXAMPLES
Pause for half a second:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ sleep 0.5
.Ed
.Pp
Pause for 2 minutes and 30 seconds:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ sleep 2.5m
.Ed
.Pp
Pause for 1 hour and 30 minutes by combining arguments:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ sleep 1h 30m
.Ed
.Pp
Pause for 1 day:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ sleep 1d
.Ed
.Pp
Use with negative numbers requires the
.Fl Fl
separator to prevent interpretation as flags:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ sleep -- -1
sleep: invalid time interval
.Ed
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Bl -diag
.It "sleep: missing operand"
No time argument was provided.
.It "sleep: invalid time interval"
The time argument could not be parsed as a valid number or contains
an invalid unit suffix.
.It "sleep: invalid time interval: value too large"
The specified time value exceeds the maximum supported duration.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr usleep 3
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Nm
utility is compliant with the
.St -p1003.1-2008
specification.
This implementation extends the standard by supporting floating point
numbers and additional time unit suffixes.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An "vibeutils implementation by Travis Cole"