.\" OpenBSD-style concise man page
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt TAIL 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm tail
.Nd display the last part of a file
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm tail
.Op Fl fqvz
.Op Fl c Ar number
.Op Fl n Ar number
.Op Ar file ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility displays the last part of one or more files or standard input.
By default, the last 10 lines are displayed.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl c Ar number
Output the last
.Ar number
bytes instead of lines.
.It Fl f , Fl Fl follow
Output appended data as the file grows.
.It Fl n Ar number
Output the last
.Ar number
lines instead of the default 10.
.It Fl q , Fl Fl quiet , Fl Fl silent
Never output headers giving file names.
.It Fl v , Fl Fl verbose
Always output headers giving file names.
.It Fl z , Fl Fl zero-terminated
Line delimiter is NUL, not newline.
.It Fl Fl help
Display help and exit.
.It Fl Fl version
Output version information and exit.
.El
.Pp
The
.Ar number
argument may be a decimal number, optionally followed by a
size letter
.Ql b ,
.Ql k ,
.Ql m ,
.Ql g ,
or
.Ql t ,
which represent 512, 1024, 1048576, 1073741824, or 1099511627776 byte blocks,
respectively.
.Pp
If no files are specified,
.Nm
reads from standard input.
A filename of
.Ql -
also refers to standard input.
.Pp
With multiple files,
.Nm
precedes the output of each file with a header showing the file name,
unless the
.Fl q
option is specified.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std tail
.Sh EXAMPLES
Display the last 20 lines of a file:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ tail -n 20 file.txt
.Ed
.Pp
Display the last 100 bytes of a file:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ tail -c 100 file.txt
.Ed
.Pp
Monitor a log file for new entries:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ tail -f /var/log/messages
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr cat 1 ,
.Xr head 1 ,
.Xr more 1 ,
.Xr sed 1
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Nm
utility is compliant with the
.St -p1003.1-2017
specification.
.Pp
The flags
.Op Fl qvz
are extensions to that specification.
.Sh AUTHORS
.Nm vibeutils
implementation by Travis Cole.