.\" touch(1) manual page
.\" This is part of the vibeutils project
.Dd December 31, 2023
.Dt TOUCH 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm touch
.Nd change file access and modification times
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm touch
.Op Fl achm
.Op Fl r Ar file
.Op Fl t Ar [[CC]YY]MMDDhhmm[.ss]
.Op Fl d Ar time
.Op Fl -time Ns = Ns Ar word
.Ar
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility sets the access and modification times of files.
If any file does not exist, it is created with default permissions.
.Pp
By default, the
.Nm
utility changes both the access and modification times.
The
.Fl a
and
.Fl m
flags may be used to select the access time or the modification time
individually.
Selecting both is equivalent to the default.
.Pp
The following options are available:
.Bl -tag -width "-r reference-file"
.It Fl a
Change the access time of the file.
The modification time of the file is not changed unless the
.Fl m
flag is also specified.
.It Fl c , Fl -no-create
Do not create the file if it does not exist.
The
.Nm
utility does not treat this as an error.
No error messages are displayed and the exit value is not affected.
.It Fl d , Fl -date Ns = Ns Ar time
Parse the provided human-readable
.Ar time
and use it instead of the current time.
(Not yet implemented in vibeutils)
.It Fl h , Fl -help
Display help information and exit.
.It Fl m
Change the modification time of the file.
The access time of the file is not changed unless the
.Fl a
flag is also specified.
.It Fl r , Fl -reference Ns = Ns Ar file
Use the access and modification times from the specified
.Ar file
instead of the current time.
.It Fl t Ar [[CC]YY]MMDDhhmm[.ss]
Change the access and modification times to the specified time instead
of the current time.
The argument is of the form
.Dq [[CC]YY]MMDDhhmm[.ss]
where each pair of letters represents the following:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact -offset indent
.It Ar CC
The first two digits of the year (the century).
.It Ar YY
The second two digits of the year.
If
.Dq YY
is specified, but
.Dq CC
is not, a value for
.Dq YY
between 69 and 99 results in a
.Dq CC
value of 19.
Otherwise, a
.Dq CC
value of 20 is used.
.It Ar MM
The month of the year, from 01 to 12.
.It Ar DD
The day of the month, from 01 to 31.
.It Ar hh
The hour of the day, from 00 to 23.
.It Ar mm
The minute of the hour, from 00 to 59.
.It Ar ss
The second of the minute, from 00 to 59.
.El
.It Fl -time Ns = Ns Ar word
Change the specified time:
.Ar word
is one of
.Cm access ,
.Cm atime ,
.Cm use
(equivalent to
.Fl a ) ;
.Cm modify
or
.Cm mtime
(equivalent to
.Fl m ) .
.It Fl V , Fl -version
Display version information and exit.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std touch
.Sh EXAMPLES
Create or update a file with the current timestamp:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ touch file.txt
.Ed
.Pp
Update multiple files without creating them if they don't exist:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ touch -c file1.txt file2.txt file3.txt
.Ed
.Pp
Set specific timestamps for a file:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ touch -t 202312251200.00 christmas.txt
.Ed
.Pp
Copy timestamps from one file to another:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ touch -r source.txt target.txt
.Ed
.Pp
Update only the access time:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ touch -a accessed.txt
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr chmod 1 ,
.Xr stat 1 ,
.Xr utimensat 2
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Nm
utility is expected to be
.St -p1003.2
compatible.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An "vibeutils implementation by Travis Cole"