.Dd August 24, 2025
.Dt WC 1
.Os vibeutils
.Sh NAME
.Nm wc
.Nd print newline, word, and byte counts for each file
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm wc
.Op Fl clmwL
.Op Fl -help
.Op Fl -version
.Op Ar file ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility displays the number of lines, words, and bytes contained in each input
.Ar file ,
or standard input (if no file is specified) to the standard output.
.Pp
A line is defined as a string of characters delimited by a newline character.
Characters beyond the final newline character will not be included in the line count.
.Pp
A word is defined as a string of characters delimited by white space
characters. White space characters are the set of characters for which the
.Xr isspace 3
function returns true.
.Pp
If more than one input file is specified, a line of cumulative counts
for all the files is displayed on a separate line after the output for
the last file.
.Pp
The following options are available:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl c , Fl -bytes
The number of bytes in each input file is written to the standard output.
This will cancel out any prior usage of the
.Fl m
option.
.It Fl l , Fl -lines
The number of lines in each input file is written to the standard output.
.It Fl m , Fl -chars
The number of characters in each input file is written to the standard output.
If the current locale does not support multibyte characters, this is equivalent to the
.Fl c
option.
This will cancel out any prior usage of the
.Fl c
option.
.It Fl w , Fl -words
The number of words in each input file is written to the standard output.
.It Fl L , Fl -max-line-length
Write the length of the longest line to the standard output.
.It Fl -help
Display help and exit.
.It Fl -version
Output version information and exit.
.El
.Pp
When an option is specified,
.Nm
only reports the information requested by that option.
The order of output always takes the form of line, word, byte, and file name.
The default action is equivalent to specifying the
.Fl c , l
and
.Fl w
options.
.Pp
If no files are specified, the standard input is used and no file name is displayed.
The prompt will accept input until receiving EOF, or
.Dq ^D
in most environments.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std wc
.Sh EXAMPLES
Count the number of lines in each of two files and display totals:
.Pp
.Dl "wc -l file1.txt file2.txt"
.Pp
Count the number of words in standard input:
.Pp
.Dl "echo 'Hello world' | wc -w"
.Pp
Count the number of bytes and characters in a UTF-8 file:
.Pp
.Dl "wc -c -m utf8.txt"
.Pp
Display the length of the longest line:
.Pp
.Dl "wc -L document.txt"
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr cksum 1 ,
.Xr isspace 3
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Nm
utility is compliant with the
.St -p1003.1-2001
specification.
.Pp
The
.Fl L
option is a GNU extension.
.Sh AUTHORS
vibeutils implementation by Travis Cole.