.\" yes(1) manual page
.\" This is part of the vibeutils project
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt YES 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm yes
.Nd output a string repeatedly until killed
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl hV
.Op Ar string ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility outputs its command line arguments, or the single character
.Sq y
if no arguments are given, separated by spaces and followed by a newline,
forever until it is killed or interrupted.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl h , Fl Fl help
Display help information and exit.
.It Fl V , Fl Fl version
Output version information and exit.
.El
.Pp
When multiple arguments are provided, they are concatenated with single
spaces between them.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std yes
.Pp
The
.Nm
utility exits 0 on success (including when terminated by SIGPIPE),
and >0 if an error occurs.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Output
.Sq y
repeatedly:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ yes
y
y
y
^C
.Ed
.Pp
Output a custom string repeatedly:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ yes hello
hello
hello
hello
^C
.Ed
.Pp
Output multiple words repeatedly:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ yes hello world
hello world
hello world
hello world
^C
.Ed
.Pp
Use with head to output a limited number of lines:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ yes | head -n 3
y
y
y
.Ed
.Pp
Generate a file with repeated content:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ yes "test line" | head -n 100 > testfile.txt
.Ed
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
The
.Nm
utility handles SIGPIPE gracefully when its output is piped to another
command that terminates early (such as
.Xr head 1 ) .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr echo 1 ,
.Xr head 1 ,
.Xr seq 1
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Nm
utility is not part of any formal standard but is widely available
on Unix-like systems.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An "vibeutils implementation by Travis Cole"
.Sh CAVEATS
The
.Nm
utility will consume CPU resources continuously until terminated.
It is designed for use in pipelines and should not be run
indefinitely in interactive sessions without output redirection.